PETE LEPAGE: Chrome
64 adds support
for resize observers,
which will notify you
when element size has changed.
Modules can now access
host-specific metadata
with import dot metadata.
The pop-up blocker
gets stronger.
And plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 64.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Tracking when an
element's size has changed
can be a bit of a pain.
Most likely, you'll need
to attach a listener
to the document's
resize event, then
call get bounding client
rect or get computed style.
But both of those can
cause layout thrashing.
And what if the browser
window didn't change size,
but a new element was
added to the document?
Or you added display
none to an element?
Both of those can change
the size of other elements
within the page.
Resize Observer notifies you
whenever an element's size
changes and provides
the new height
and width of the
element, reducing
the risk of layout thrashing.
Like other observers,
using it is pretty simple.
Create a resize observer
object and pass callback
to the constructor.
The callback will be given
an array of resize observer
entries, one entry per
observed element, which
contains the new
dimensions for the element.
Check out [INAUDIBLE] post for
more details and real world
examples.
I hate tab unders.
You know them.
It's when a page opens a
pop-up to some destination
and navigates the page.
Usually one of them is an ad or
something you just don't want.
Starting in Chrome 64,
these types of navigations
will be blocked, and Chrome
will show some native UI
to the user, allowing
them to follow
the redirect if they want.
When writing JavaScript
modules, you often
want access to
host-specific metadata
about the current module.
Chrome 64 now
supports the import
dot meta property within
modules and exposes
the URL for the module
via import meta dot URL.
This is really helpful when
you want to resolve resources
relative to the
module file as opposed
to the current HTML document.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 64
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
Chrome now supports
named captures
and regular expressions.
The default preload value
for audio and video elements
is now metadata.
This brings Chrome in
line with other browsers
and helps to reduce
bandwidth and resource
usage by only loading
the metadata and not
the media itself.
You can now use request
dot prototype dot
cache to view the
cache mode of a request
and determine whether the
request is a reload request.
And using the Focus
Management API,
you can now focus an
element without scrolling
to it with the prevent
scroll attribute.
Oh, and one more.
While this isn't really
a developer feature,
it makes me happy.
Window dot alert no longer
brings a background tab
to the foreground.
Instead, the alert will be shown
when the user switches back
to that tab.
No more random tab
switches because something
fired a window dot alert on me.
I'm looking at you,
Google Calendar.
All the details, including
links to docs and specs,
are in the description below.
And be sure to check out the
latest New In Chrome DevTools
video to learn what's
new in Dev Tools.
Then click the Subscribe
button and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 65 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]